Johns Hopkins, founded in 1876, is America's first research university and home to nine world-class academic divisions working together as one university.

Researchers at Johns Hopkins University conduct clinical trials and clinical studies to discover new ways to prevent and treat diseases and other health problems. We are seeking a Clinical Research Coordinator who will administratively coordinate clinical protocol implementation, typically for a single study. Will ensure efficient logistical implementation of the study activities and provide administrative support for research-related regulatory issues.


Specific Duties & Responsibilities

    Coordinate all activities of a clinical research study to ensure adherence to protocol and validity of findings.

    Participate in clinical study start-up meetings.
    Assist research nurses, study coordinators, principal investigators, and other study personnel in executing protocol-related activities.

    Explain the study background and rationale for the research to potential and current participants

    Contribute to the development of recruitment strategies for participants for assigned study.

    Implement a variety of techniques for recruitment as appropriate, e.g., print and web-based advertisements, contact referring physicians, participate in community events,

etc.

    Independently conduct the consenting process or ensure consent is obtained on appropriate participants.

    Schedule participants for required activities and provide any special instructions prior to upcoming tests/exams.

    Serve as liaison to study participants.
    Assist with setup of the data collection system and enter and organize data.
    Assist in coordinating study meetings.
    Participate in study meetings and provide updates on protocol implementation status and make recommendations on operational issues.

    Assist with the preparation of submissions to the Institutional Review Board (IRB)
    Liaison with IRB on administrative matters and facilitate communications with the PI.
    Conduct literature searches to provide background information.
    Obtain and maintain excellent operating knowledge of assigned clinical protocol, clinical equipment, and clinical computer systems.

    Oversee budget expenditures for study operations.
    Other duties as assigned.



Minimum Qualifications

    Bachelor's Degree in a related field
    Additional education may substitute for required experience and additional related experience may substitute for required education beyond a high school diploma

diploma/graduation equivalent, to the extent permitted by the JHU equivalency formula


Preferred Qualifications

    Related undergraduate or work experience in human subjects research.

Classified Title: Clinical Research Coordinator
Role/Level/Range: ACRO37.5/03/CD
Starting Salary Range: $17.20 - $30.30 HRLY ($49,000 targeted; Commensurate w/exp.)
Employee group: Full Time
Schedule: Mon - Fri 8am - 4pm
FLSA Status: Non-Exempt
Location: Hybrid/School of Medicine Campus
Department name: SOM DOM Cardiology
Personnel area: School of Medicine

The successful candidate(s) for this position will be subject to a pre-employment background check.

If you are interested in applying for employment with The Johns Hopkins University and require special assistance or accommodation during any part of the pre-employment process, please contact the HR Business Services Office at jhurecruitment@jhu.edu. For TTY users, call via Maryland Relay or dial 711.

The following additional provisions may apply depending on which campus you will work. Your recruiter will advise accordingly.

During the Influenza ("the flu") season, as a condition of employment, The Johns Hopkins Institutions require all employees who provide ongoing services to patients or work in patient care or clinical care areas to have an annual influenza vaccination or possess an approved medical or religious exception. Failure to meet this requirement may result in termination of employment.

The pre-employment physical for positions in clinical areas, laboratories, working with research subjects, or involving community contact requires documentation of immune status against Rubella (German measles), Rubeola (Measles), Mumps, Varicella (chickenpox), Hepatitis B and documentation of having received the Tdap (Tetanus, diphtheria, pertussis) vaccination. This may include documentation of having two (2) MMR vaccines; two (2) Varicella vaccines; or antibody status to these diseases from laboratory testing. Blood tests for immunities to these diseases are ordinarily included in the pre-employment physical exam except for those employees who provide results of blood tests or immunization documentation from their own health care providers. Any vaccinations required for these diseases will be given at no cost in our Occupational Health office.